All right.
This video is where things are going to get just a little bit nasty because we're going to write out
a little bit of crazy typescript code.
The syntax is going to be a little bit weird, but I'm pretty sure that once you see it all in action,
it's going to make a lot of sense.
So our goal here is to somehow get TypeScript to understand that it needs to make sure that the subject
we have listed right here matches up with the type of data that we provide right there.
So how are we going to do this?
Well, we're going to go back over to our base listener file.
Inside the space listener at the very top, we are going to define yet another interface.
This interface is going to describe a very generic kind of event.
So we're going to find an interface called event.
We're going to say that if something is an event, it's going to have a subject and the subject is going
to be one of the possible values out of our subject's enum.
So I'm going to import subject at the top.
From subjects.
And excuse me, it's subjects not subject singular.
Then for the subject property inside this event interface we'll put in these subjects.
So for an object to be considered to be an event, it must have a subject property.
That is one of the possible values listed inside of subjects.
Well, then say that this thing is also going to have a data property and its type is going to be any.
This might be a bit mysterious right here, right now, but trust me, it's going to make sense in just
a moment.
So here's the kind of crazy typescript part of code that unfortunately we can't really escape when we
define listener.
We're going to set this thing up as a generic class.
So I'm going to put inside of here t extends event.
This means that whenever we try to make use of a listener in any way.
So in other words, whenever we try to extend it, we're going to have to provide some custom type to
this.
This generic type right here can be thought of as like an argument for types.
So we can now refer to type T everywhere inside of our class definition.
So this is how we're going to set up some pairing and make sure that TypeScript understands that it
needs to make sure that we've got a match between the subject and data inside of our actual listener.
To do so, we're going to refer to this type T right here, and we're going to say that the subject
that is provided must be exactly equal to whatever subject was provided on this argument.
So we'll say T at subject.
And then inside the on message function, we're going to update this.
And rather than saying that the first argument is going to be of type any.
Instead we're going to say it is going to be of type T at data like so.
Okay.
So at this point, if you do not understand this little part right here.
Absolutely.
Totally.
Okay.
What really matters here is that you understand the end result and how this is going to get TypeScript
to check and make sure that we've defined all of our listeners correctly.
So that is all we really have to do inside this based listener.
We're now going to go back over to our custom ticket created listener and see how we actually make use
of this.
So let's open that up right now.
So over here we're now getting an air from listener.
And the reason is that now listener is a generic class.
So we have to provide a argument for type T.
So our argument in this case, we want to put it in a type to listener right here that describes the
event that we expect to receive inside this listener.
That is the interface we just put together.
We expect our listener to deal with something like this, something that has a subject of to get created
and has this structure of data inside of it.
So inside of our custom listener, we are going to import.
Ticket created event at the top.
From ticket created events.
And then we will provide that as the generic type to listener.
And now we're going to start to see some errors start to light up.
So as soon as we put that in, we are now getting an air out of subject right here.
If we hover over it, it says that we assigned type string or something of type string to subject.
But if we are trying to actually implement listener correctly, then we need to make sure that subject
is of type subjects.
Ticket created.
So this is the first sign right here that we've got TypeScript engaged in helping us make sure that
we write out a listener correctly.
The reason this is working is that we are providing the ticket created event as the generic type to
listener back inside of our listener.
We are saying that whatever subject is provided on this subclass must match up to whatever type was
provided on this type.
Arguments.
Subject Property.
So long story short, subject right here must be exactly equal 100% of the time to the subject we provided
right here.
So to get this air to go away, we have to import once again the subject's name.
So I'm going to import subjects from subjects.
I'm then going to annotate this thing subject as being of type subjects dot ticket created.
That's the type annotation and I'm going to set its actual value to subjects ticket created.
Why do we have to provide the type invitation right here?
Well, if we delete it, we're going to get an error again.
The reason for that is that TypeScript thinks that we might try to change the value of subject at some
point in the future.
So essentially TypeScript is afraid that we will do something like this.
Subject is some other value, possibly even a value out of that.
Enum like subjects dot order updated.
By providing this type annotation right here, this makes sure that we can never change the value of
subject to anything else.
It must always be equal to the value of ticket created.
If we only.
Provide the assignment.
Subject can be of type anything inside of subjects so it can be any of the possible cases inside of
subjects.
And again, that's not what we want.
We want to make sure that it is always exactly equal to ticket created.
If you come from the world of Java, not JavaScript, but plain Java, this would be a good location
to make use of the final keyword.
Unfortunately, we do not have final in the world of TypeScript, so we do not get to take advantage
of that.
Okay.
So now we have made a good improvement here.
We no longer have to write out a plain string inside of our listener.
And again, plane strings are always a place where we can make a typo very easily.
So now we always have to refer to the subject, and that means that we only ever have to write out the
exact name of a subject exactly one time that is going to dramatically reduce the possibility of us
making a typo around the name of some subject.
So that is very, very good.
In addition, TypeScript is also always going to make sure that we provide a subject right here exactly
equal to whatever subject was listed inside of the ticket created event interface.
So if we try to change this, for example, to the order updated.
Case on the enum.
Once again, TypeScript is going to yell at us.
It's going to say, Hey, you try to provide the wrong subject.
So now we've got a pretty good system here to make sure that TypeScript is going to ensure that we put
in a valid subject.
Hey.
So this looks good, but we still need to make sure that TypeScript does some type checking around this
data argument right here, because we still can reference properties on it, such as name and cost that
don't actually exist.
So one last step to put together.
Let's take a look at it in the next video.